MAIN PAGE

SD Consulting Group

Main Page

Engineers and Hydrogeologists focused on environmentally sustainable solutions for all types of water, wastewater and restoration projects.

Read about wastewater disposal in Alberta in our new article in "Water Canada", <a>Back to the Source</a>

http://sd-consultinggroup.com/ProjectDescription/Water_Canada_SDWastewater_Disposal_March2011.pdf]



SERVICES

Decentralized Wastewater Treatment and Disposal System Design

SD Consulting Group provides assistance with all phases of Decentralized wastewater projects, with a focus on providing solutions that have favorable life cycle costs. Typical projects include:
Residential Developments
Small Communities
Resorts
RV Parks
Camping Facilities
Industrial/Commercial Facilities



Potable Water Systems

Potable Water System services provided by SD Consulting Group include planning, design, permit assistance and construction phase services. We provide this expertise in support of small community, residential development, resorts, and industrial facilities.



Backcountry Waste Management

Our staff members have significant experience working with remote and seasonal facilities in meeting their water and wastewater infrastructure needs. These types of facilities require detailed attention and innovative designs that cater to the unique needs of the clients and work with each environmentally sensitive location. For project examples, please see the description of BEES and the National Boy Scouts of America.


Industrial Treatment Systems

SD Consulting Group assists Industrial Clients with their infrastructure needs. Clients include airports, power generation facilities and private developers.


Habitat Restoration and Monitoring

SD Consulting Group provides a number of services related to habitat restoration, including assessment of native plant communities, wetland delineation, prairie seeding, contract growing and planting, burning, soil bioengineering for stream bank stabilization, and wetland restoration. For Project Examples, please see the description of Faribault Energy Park and Meadowwoods.


Technical Document Development

Our staff experience includes preparation of environmental assessment worksheets (EAW's) and related permitting documents. In addition, we have experience assisting a number of regulator agencies in Canada and the United States in the development of standards and process documents. For Project Examples, please see the description of AAMDC and BEES.




PROJECTS

Long Island MacArthur Airport

Project Type:
Industrial Treatment Systems

Construction Date:
2011

Summary:

SD Consulting GRoup is currently working on design of a treatment wetland for the glycol contaminated runoff that results from plane deicing at the MacArthur Long Island Airport utilizing patented aerated gravel bed technology. The staff at the MacArthur Long Island Airport investigated options for treating the runoff. From the airplane deicing activities at the airport. Based on the low capital cost and low maintenance costs, as well as the ease of operation, the staff at the airport selected the aerated gravel bed system for treatment of the deicing fluid runoff.
